pages/sdk/auto-drive.mdx, before:

## Auto-Drive Package

### Introduction

The `@autonomys/auto-drive` package provides utilities for creating and managing IPLD DAGs (InterPlanetary Linked Data Directed Acyclic Graphs) for files and folders, chunking large files, handling metadata, and creating folder structures suitable for distributed storage systems like IPFS.

### Features

- **File Chunking and DAG Creation**: Efficiently split large files into smaller chunks and create IPLD DAGs.
- **Folder Structure Creation**: Generate IPLD DAGs for directory structures.
- **Metadata Handling**: Add and manage metadata for files and folders.
- **CID Management**: Utilities for working with Content Identifiers (CIDs).
- **TypeScript Support**: Fully typed for an enhanced developer experience.

### Auto Drive Dashboard

View your upload and download limits, access files uploaded by other users, and manage and share your submissions by logging in to Auto Drive:

1. Open [Auto Drive](https://ai3.storage/)
2. Sign in via Google or Discord  

   ![Auto-Drive-1](/developers/Auto-Drive-1.png)

3. On the Dashboard you will see:  

   - Your upload limit (currently **100MB** per month)  
   - Your download limit (currently **5GB** per month)  
   - A list of **uploaded files** and their **CIDs**
   - Options to **Download**, **Share** or **Remove** each file

  ![Auto-Drive-2](/developers/Auto-Drive-2.png)

> *Note:* Removing a file does not delete it from the DSN as it is permanent storage. It only removes the file from your Dashboard.

4. Use the in-browser environment to upload, download or share files, or the SDK functions (described below) to upload files or folders via the CLI.

  ![Auto-Drive-3](/developers/Auto-Drive-3.png)

#### Creating an API key

Click on `Profile` to create your API key. Use this API key in the CLI to upload files or folders.

  ![Auto-Drive-4](/developers/Auto-Drive-4.png)

#### Sharing files

Click the `Share` button next to a file to share it using a link, or provide a user’s public ID to share all their files. Each user’s public ID is visible on their `Profile` page.

  ![Auto-Drive-5](/developers/Auto-Drive-5.png)

### Installation

Install the package via `npm` or `yarn`:

```bash
# Using npm
npm install @autonomys/auto-drive

# Using yarn
yarn add @autonomys/auto-drive
```

### Importing

Import the `auto-drive` functions you need into your project:

```typescript
// Import specific functions
import { createFileIPLDDag, createFolderIPLDDag } from '@autonomys/auto-drive';

// Or import everything
import * as drive from '@autonomys/auto-drive';
```

### Available functions

> *Note:* All asynchronous functions return a `Promise` (or an async iterable in the case of `downloadObject`), and should be used with `await` for proper execution flow. Wrap asynchronous calls in `try...catch` blocks to handle potential errors gracefully. Ensure that file paths are correct and accessible when reading from or writing to the file system.

#### Upload and download operations

- `uploadFile(api, file, options): Promise<string>`: Uploads a file (using a buffer, `File`, or a custom interface) with optional encryption and compression. Returns the resulting CID as a string.
- `uploadFileFromFilepath(api, filepath, options): Promise<string>`: Uploads a file from a filesystem path.
- `uploadFileFromInput(api, file, options): Promise<string>`: Uploads a file obtained from a browser's `File` API.
- `uploadFolderFromFolderPath(api, folderPath, options): Promise<string>`: Uploads a folder from a filesystem path.
- `uploadFolderFromInput(api, fileList, options): Promise<string>`: Uploads a folder from a browser's `FileList`.
- `uploadFileWithinFolderUpload(api, uploadId, file, options): Promise<string>`: Uploads a file within an existing folder upload session.
- `downloadFile(api, cid, password?): AsyncIterable<Buffer>`: Downloads a file from its CID, with optional decryption using a password.
- `downloadObject(api, params): AsyncIterable<Buffer>`: Downloads an object from its CID (likely implemented as `apiCalls.downloadObject`).

#### Utility functions

- `uploadFileChunks(api, fileUploadId, asyncIterable, uploadChunkSize, onProgress): Promise<void>`: Handles the chunked upload of files to the server.
- `constructZipBlobFromTreeAndPaths(tree, filesMap): Promise<Blob>`: Creates a zip archive from a file tree and corresponding file paths.
- `constructFromInput(files): FolderTree`: Constructs a folder tree from an array of files.
- `fileToIterable(file): AsyncIterable<Buffer>`: Converts a file into an async iterable of buffers.

#### CID utilities

- `cidOfNode(node): CID`: Generates a CID from an IPLD node.
- `cidToString(cid): string`: Converts a CID to its string representation.
- `stringToCid(cidString): CID`: Parses a CID string back into a CID object.

#### Node encoding and decoding

- `encodeNode(node): Uint8Array`: Encodes an IPLD node into a byte array.
- `decodeNode(encodedNode): any`: Decodes a byte array back into an IPLD node.


## Usage examples

### 1. Uploading a file from a filepath

```typescript
import { uploadFileFromFilepath,createAutoDriveApi, } from '@autonomys/auto-drive'
import { NetworkId } from '@autonomys/auto-utils'

const api = createAutoDriveApi({ apiKey: 'your-api-key'. network: NetworkId.TAURUS }) // Initialize your API instance with an API key and NetworkID
const filePath = 'path/to/your/file.txt' // Specify the path to your file
const options = {
  password: 'your-encryption-password', // Optional: specify a password for encryption
  compression: true,
  // An optional callback useful for large file uploads
  onProgress?: (progress: number) => {
    console.log(`The upload is completed is ${progress}% completed`)
  }
}

const cid = await uploadFileFromFilepath(api, filePath, options)

console.log(`The file is uploaded and its cid is ${cid}`)
```

### 2. Uploading a file from an input (interface)

```typescript
import { uploadFileFromInput, createAutoDriveApi } from '@autonomys/auto-drive'
import { NetworkId } from '@autonomys/auto-utils'

const api = createAutoDriveApi({ apiKey: 'your-api-key', network: NetworkId.TAURUS}) // Initialize your API instance with an API key and NetworkID

// e.g. Get the file from the object of an HTML event
const file: File = e.target.value // Substitute with your file
const options = {
  password: 'your-encryption-password', // Optional: specify a password for encryption
  compression: true,
}
const cid = await uploadFileFromInput(api, file, options)

console.log(`The file is uploaded and its cid is ${cid}`)

```

### 3. Uploading a file from a custom interface with `GenericFile`:

```typescript
export interface GenericFile {
  read(): AsyncIterable<Buffer> // A buffer generator function that will output the bytes of the file
  name: string
  mimeType?: string
  size: number
  path: string // Can be ignored for a file upload
}
```
You can upload any file that can be represented in this way, e.g. as a `Buffer`:

```typescript
import { createAutoDriveApi, uploadFile } from '@autonomys/auto-drive'
import { NetworkId } from '@autonomys/auto-utils'

const api = createAutoDriveApi({ apiKey: 'your-api-key', network: NetworkId.TAURUS }) // Initialize your API instance with an API key and NetworkID
const buffer = Buffer.from(...);
const GenericFile = {
  read: async function *() {
    yield buffer
  },
  name: "autonomys-whitepaper.pdf",
  mimeType: "application/pdf",
  size: 1234556,
  path: "autonomys-whitepaper.pdf"
}

const options = {
  password: 'your-encryption-password', // Optional: specify a password for encryption
  compression: true,
  // An optional callback useful for large file uploads
  onProgress?: (progress: number) => {
    console.log(`The upload is completed is ${progress}% completed`)
  }
}

const cid = uploadFile(api, genericFile, options)

console.log(`The file is uploaded and its cid is ${cid}`)
```


### 4. Uploading a folder

> *Note:* Before being encrypted and uploaded, a folder is first converted to a zip file.

```typescript
import { createAutoDriveApi, uploadFolderFromFolderPath } from '@autonomys/auto-drive'
import { NetworkId } from '@autonomys/auto-utils'

const api = createAutoDriveApi({ apiKey: 'your-api-key', network: NetworkId.TAURUS}) // Initialize your API instance with an API key and NetworkID
const folderPath = 'path/to/your/folder' // Specify the path to your folder

const options = {
  uploadChunkSize: 1024 * 1024, // Optional: specify the chunk size for uploads
  password: 'your-encryption-password', // Optional: if the folder is encrypted
  // An optional callback useful for large file uploads
  onProgress: (progress: number) => {
    console.log(`The upload is completed is ${progress}% completed`)
  },
}

const folderCID = await uploadFolderFromFolderPath(api, folderPath, options)

console.log(`The folder is uploaded and its cid is ${folderCID}`)

```



### 5. Downloading files

```typescript
import { createAutoDriveApi, downloadFile } from '@autonomys/auto-drive'
import { NetworkId } from '@autonomys/auto-utils'

const api = createAutoDriveApi({ apiKey: 'your-api-key', network: NetworkId.TAURUS }) // Initialize your API instance with an API key

try {
  const cid = '..'
  const stream = await downloadFile(api, cid)
  let file = Buffer.alloc(0)
  for await (const chunk of stream) {
    file = Buffer.concat([file, chunk])
  }
  console.log('File downloaded successfully:', stream)
} catch (error) {
  console.error('Error downloading file:', error)
}
```

### 6. Retrieving root directories with `getRoots`

```typescript
import { createAutoDriveApi, apiCalls, Scope } from '@autonomys/auto-drive'
import { NetworkId } from '@autonomys/auto-utils'

const api = createAutoDriveApi({ apiKey: 'your-api-key', network: NetworkId.TAURUS }) // Initialize your API instance with an API key and NetworkID

try {
  const myFiles = await apiCalls.getRoots(api, {
    scope: Scope.User,
    limit: 100,
    offset: 0,
  })

  console.log(`Retrieved ${myFiles.rows.length} files of ${myFiles.totalCount} total`)
  for (const file of myFiles.rows) {
    console.log(`${file.name} - ${file.headCid}: ${file.size}`)
  }
} catch (error) {
  console.error('Error downloading file:', error)
}
```

Commit message:

Update Auto-Utils to include Auto Drive API reference, regenerate LLM docs

pages/sdk/auto-drive.mdx, after:

## Auto-Drive Package

### Introduction

The `@autonomys/auto-drive` package provides utilities for creating and managing IPLD DAGs (InterPlanetary Linked Data Directed Acyclic Graphs) for files and folders, chunking large files, handling metadata, and creating folder structures suitable for distributed storage systems like IPFS.

### Features

- **File Chunking and DAG Creation**: Efficiently split large files into smaller chunks and create IPLD DAGs.
- **Folder Structure Creation**: Generate IPLD DAGs for directory structures.
- **Metadata Handling**: Add and manage metadata for files and folders.
- **CID Management**: Utilities for working with Content Identifiers (CIDs).
- **TypeScript Support**: Fully typed for an enhanced developer experience.

### Auto Drive Dashboard

View your upload and download limits, access files uploaded by other users, and manage and share your submissions by logging in to Auto Drive:

1. Open [Auto Drive](https://ai3.storage/)
2. Sign in via Google or Discord  

   ![Auto-Drive-1](/developers/Auto-Drive-1.png)

3. On the Dashboard you will see:  

   - Your upload limit (currently **100MB** per month)  
   - Your download limit (currently **5GB** per month)  
   - A list of **uploaded files** and their **CIDs**
   - Options to **Download**, **Share** or **Remove** each file

  ![Auto-Drive-2](/developers/Auto-Drive-2.png)

> *Note:* Removing a file does not delete it from the DSN as it is permanent storage. It only removes the file from your Dashboard.

4. Use the in-browser environment to upload, download or share files, or the SDK functions (described below) to upload files or folders via the CLI.

  ![Auto-Drive-3](/developers/Auto-Drive-3.png)

#### Creating an API key

Click on `Profile` to create your API key. Use this API key in the CLI to upload files or folders.

  ![Auto-Drive-4](/developers/Auto-Drive-4.png)

#### Sharing files

Click the `Share` button next to a file to share it using a link, or provide a user’s public ID to share all their files. Each user’s public ID is visible on their `Profile` page.

  ![Auto-Drive-5](/developers/Auto-Drive-5.png)

### Installation

Install the package via `npm` or `yarn`:

```bash
# Using npm
npm install @autonomys/auto-drive

# Using yarn
yarn add @autonomys/auto-drive
```

### Importing

Import the `auto-drive` functions you need into your project:

```typescript
// Import specific functions
import { createFileIPLDDag, createFolderIPLDDag } from '@autonomys/auto-drive';

// Or import everything
import * as drive from '@autonomys/auto-drive';
```

### Available functions

> *Note:* All asynchronous functions return a `Promise` (or an async iterable in the case of `downloadObject`), and should be used with `await` for proper execution flow. Wrap asynchronous calls in `try...catch` blocks to handle potential errors gracefully. Ensure that file paths are correct and accessible when reading from or writing to the file system.

#### Upload and download operations

- `uploadFile(api, file, options): Promise<string>`: Uploads a file (using a buffer, `File`, or a custom interface) with optional encryption and compression. Returns the resulting CID as a string.
- `uploadFileFromFilepath(api, filepath, options): Promise<string>`: Uploads a file from a filesystem path.
- `uploadFileFromInput(api, file, options): Promise<string>`: Uploads a file obtained from a browser's `File` API.
- `uploadFolderFromFolderPath(api, folderPath, options): Promise<string>`: Uploads a folder from a filesystem path.
- `uploadFolderFromInput(api, fileList, options): Promise<string>`: Uploads a folder from a browser's `FileList`.
- `uploadFileWithinFolderUpload(api, uploadId, file, options): Promise<string>`: Uploads a file within an existing folder upload session.
- `downloadFile(api, cid, password?): AsyncIterable<Buffer>`: Downloads a file from its CID, with optional decryption using a password.
- `downloadObject(api, params): AsyncIterable<Buffer>`: Downloads an object from its CID (likely implemented as `apiCalls.downloadObject`).

#### Utility functions

- `uploadFileChunks(api, fileUploadId, asyncIterable, uploadChunkSize, onProgress): Promise<void>`: Handles the chunked upload of files to the server.
- `constructZipBlobFromTreeAndPaths(tree, filesMap): Promise<Blob>`: Creates a zip archive from a file tree and corresponding file paths.
- `constructFromInput(files): FolderTree`: Constructs a folder tree from an array of files.
- `fileToIterable(file): AsyncIterable<Buffer>`: Converts a file into an async iterable of buffers.

#### CID utilities

- `cidOfNode(node): CID`: Generates a CID from an IPLD node.
- `cidToString(cid): string`: Converts a CID to its string representation.
- `stringToCid(cidString): CID`: Parses a CID string back into a CID object.

#### Node encoding and decoding

- `encodeNode(node): Uint8Array`: Encodes an IPLD node into a byte array.
- `decodeNode(encodedNode): any`: Decodes a byte array back into an IPLD node.


### Network Configuration

Since [AutoDrive](https://ai3.storage) is available on both Taurus testnet and Mainnet, you have to condifure the network when using the package.

```ts
import { NetworkId } from '@autonomys/auto-utils'

const api = createAutoDriveApi({
  apiKey: 'your-api-key',
  network: NetworkId.TAURUS | NetworkId.MAINNET
})

```

## Usage examples

### 1. Uploading a file from a filepath

```typescript
import { uploadFileFromFilepath,createAutoDriveApi, } from '@autonomys/auto-drive'
import { NetworkId } from '@autonomys/auto-utils'

const api = createAutoDriveApi({ apiKey: 'your-api-key'. network: NetworkId.TAURUS }) // Initialize your API instance with an API key and NetworkID
const filePath = 'path/to/your/file.txt' // Specify the path to your file
const options = {
  password: 'your-encryption-password', // Optional: specify a password for encryption
  compression: true,
  // An optional callback useful for large file uploads
  onProgress?: (progress: number) => {
    console.log(`The upload is completed is ${progress}% completed`)
  }
}

const cid = await uploadFileFromFilepath(api, filePath, options)

console.log(`The file is uploaded and its cid is ${cid}`)
```

### 2. Uploading a file from an input (interface)

```typescript
import { uploadFileFromInput, createAutoDriveApi } from '@autonomys/auto-drive'
import { NetworkId } from '@autonomys/auto-utils'

const api = createAutoDriveApi({ apiKey: 'your-api-key', network: NetworkId.TAURUS}) // Initialize your API instance with an API key and NetworkID

// e.g. Get the file from the object of an HTML event
const file: File = e.target.value // Substitute with your file
const options = {
  password: 'your-encryption-password', // Optional: specify a password for encryption
  compression: true,
}
const cid = await uploadFileFromInput(api, file, options)

console.log(`The file is uploaded and its cid is ${cid}`)

```

### 3. Uploading a file from a custom interface with `GenericFile`:

```typescript
export interface GenericFile {
  read(): AsyncIterable<Buffer> // A buffer generator function that will output the bytes of the file
  name: string
  mimeType?: string
  size: number
  path: string // Can be ignored for a file upload
}
```
You can upload any file that can be represented in this way, e.g. as a `Buffer`:

```typescript
import { createAutoDriveApi, uploadFile } from '@autonomys/auto-drive'
import { NetworkId } from '@autonomys/auto-utils'

const api = createAutoDriveApi({ apiKey: 'your-api-key', network: NetworkId.TAURUS }) // Initialize your API instance with an API key and NetworkID
const buffer = Buffer.from(...);
const GenericFile = {
  read: async function *() {
    yield buffer
  },
  name: "autonomys-whitepaper.pdf",
  mimeType: "application/pdf",
  size: 1234556,
  path: "autonomys-whitepaper.pdf"
}

const options = {
  password: 'your-encryption-password', // Optional: specify a password for encryption
  compression: true,
  // An optional callback useful for large file uploads
  onProgress?: (progress: number) => {
    console.log(`The upload is completed is ${progress}% completed`)
  }
}

const cid = uploadFile(api, genericFile, options)

console.log(`The file is uploaded and its cid is ${cid}`)
```


### 4. Uploading a folder

> *Note:* Before being encrypted and uploaded, a folder is first converted to a zip file.

```typescript
import { createAutoDriveApi, uploadFolderFromFolderPath } from '@autonomys/auto-drive'
import { NetworkId } from '@autonomys/auto-utils'

const api = createAutoDriveApi({ apiKey: 'your-api-key', network: NetworkId.TAURUS}) // Initialize your API instance with an API key and NetworkID
const folderPath = 'path/to/your/folder' // Specify the path to your folder

const options = {
  uploadChunkSize: 1024 * 1024, // Optional: specify the chunk size for uploads
  password: 'your-encryption-password', // Optional: if the folder is encrypted
  // An optional callback useful for large file uploads
  onProgress: (progress: number) => {
    console.log(`The upload is completed is ${progress}% completed`)
  },
}

const folderCID = await uploadFolderFromFolderPath(api, folderPath, options)

console.log(`The folder is uploaded and its cid is ${folderCID}`)

```

### 5. Downloading files

```typescript
import { createAutoDriveApi, downloadFile } from '@autonomys/auto-drive'
import { NetworkId } from '@autonomys/auto-utils'

const api = createAutoDriveApi({ apiKey: 'your-api-key', network: NetworkId.TAURUS }) // Initialize your API instance with an API key

try {
  const cid = '..'
  const stream = await downloadFile(api, cid)
  let file = Buffer.alloc(0)
  for await (const chunk of stream) {
    file = Buffer.concat([file, chunk])
  }
  console.log('File downloaded successfully:', stream)
} catch (error) {
  console.error('Error downloading file:', error)
}
```

### 6. Retrieving root directories with `getRoots`

```typescript
import { createAutoDriveApi, apiCalls, Scope } from '@autonomys/auto-drive'
import { NetworkId } from '@autonomys/auto-utils'

const api = createAutoDriveApi({ apiKey: 'your-api-key', network: NetworkId.TAURUS }) // Initialize your API instance with an API key and NetworkID

try {
  const myFiles = await apiCalls.getRoots(api, {
    scope: Scope.User,
    limit: 100,
    offset: 0,
  })

  console.log(`Retrieved ${myFiles.rows.length} files of ${myFiles.totalCount} total`)
  for (const file of myFiles.rows) {
    console.log(`${file.name} - ${file.headCid}: ${file.size}`)
  }
} catch (error) {
  console.error('Error downloading file:', error)
}
```
