pages/sdk/auto-utils.mdx, before:

## Auto-Utils Package

### Introduction

The `@autonomys/auto-utils` package provides core utility functions for interacting with and building applications on the Autonomys Network.

### Features

- **Wallet Management**: Initialize and manage wallets using mnemonics or URIs.
- **Network Configuration**: Access and manage network and domain settings.
- **Data Storage**: Save and read data to and from local storage or the file system.
- **Cryptographic Operations**: Perform hashing and data manipulation using cryptographic functions.
- **API Activation**: Activate and manage connections to the Autonomys Network APIs.
- **Address Utilities**: Convert and decode addresses to and from standardized formats.

### Installation

Install the package via `npm` or `yarn`:

```bash
# Using npm
npm install @autonomys/auto-utils

# Using yarn
yarn add @autonomys/auto-utils
```

### Importing

Import the `auto-utils` functions you need into your project:

```typescript
// Import specific functions
import { activateWallet, activate, blake2b_256 } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

// Or import everything
import * as utils from '@autonomys/auto-utils';
```

### Available functions

> *Note:* All asynchronous functions return a `Promise` and should be used with `await` for proper execution flow. Wrap asynchronous calls in `try...catch` blocks to handle potential errors gracefully.

#### Account and address utilities

- `address(input): string`: Standardizes an address format.
- `createAccountIdType(api, address): Uint8Array`: Creates an `AccountId` object from an address.
- `decode(input): Uint8Array`: Decodes an address to bytes.

#### API and connection management

> *Note:* Always disconnect the API instance after operations to free up resources.

- `activate(options?): Promise<ApiPromise>`: Connects to the Autonomys Network.
- `activateDomain(params): Promise<ApiPromise>`: Connects to a specific domain.
- `createConnection(endpoint, options?): Promise<ApiPromise>`: Creates a new API connection.
- `disconnect(api): Promise<void>`: Disconnects an API instance.

#### Cryptographic functions

- `blake2b_256(data): string`: Hashes data with BLAKE2b-256.
- `concatenateUint8Arrays(...arrays): Uint8Array`: Concatenates multiple `Uint8Array`s.
- `stringToUint8Array(string): Uint8Array`: Converts a string to `Uint8Array`.

#### Data storage

> *Note:* Be cautious when saving sensitive data using `save` and `read` as data storage is permanent. Handle private keys securely. Do not expose them in code or logs.

- `read(key): Promise<any>`: Reads data from storage.
- `readFromFileSystem(key): Promise<any>`: Reads data from file system.
- `readFromLocalStorage(key): Promise<any>`: Reads data from local storage.
- `save(key, value): Promise<void>`: Saves data to storage.
- `saveOnFileSystem(key, value): Promise<void>`: Saves data to file system.
- `saveOnLocalStorage(key, value): Promise<void>`: Saves data to local storage.

#### Event management

- `eventName(type, event): string`: Combines a type and an event into a full event name.
- `eventsGroup`: Groups system events by name.
- `expectSuccessfulTxEvent`: Default success event names array.
- `Type`: Enum for event types (e.g., `system`).
- `validateEvents(events, eventsExpected?, tx, block, log?): EventsValidated`: Checks if expected events are in transaction events.

#### Network management

- `getNetworkDetails(options): NetworkDetails`: Retrieves the details of a network.
- `getNetworkDomainDetails(options): DomainDetails`: Retrieves the details of a domain.
- `getNetworkDomainRpcUrls(options): string[]`: Retrieves the RPC URLs for a domain.
- `getNetworkRpcUrls(options): string[]`: Retrieves the RPC URLs for a network.
- `networks`: Array of available networks.

#### Signing utilities

- `signMessage(signer, address, data): Promise<{ signature: string }>`: Signs a message with a signer and an address.
- `signatureVerify`: Verifies signatures (re-exported from `@polkadot/util-crypto`).
- `signingKey(publicKey): string`: Converts a public key to a hex string.

#### String utilities

- `capitalizeFirstLetter(string): string`: Capitalizes the first letter.
- `fixLengthEntryId(blockHeight, indexInBlock?): string`: Creates fixed-length IDs.
- `isAddress(address): boolean`: Validates a Substrate address.
- `isHex(value): boolean`: Validates a hexadecimal string.
- `shortString(value, initialLength?, endLength?): string`: Truncates strings.
- `stringify(value): string`: Stringifies values, handling BigInt.

#### Token and value formatting

- `formatSpacePledged(value, decimals?): string`: Formats space amount with units.
- `formatTokenAmount(amount, decimals?): bigint`: Formats token amount with decimals.
- `parseTokenAmount(amount, decimals?): number`: Parses token amount with decimals.

#### Transaction utilities

- `signAndSendTx(sender, tx, options?, eventsExpected?, log?, mapErrorCodeToEnum?): Promise<TransactionSignedAndSend>`: Signs, sends, and validates a transaction.

#### Wallet management

- `activateWallet(options): Promise<{ api, accounts }>`: Activates a wallet using a mnemonic or URI.
- `generateWallet(): GeneratedWallet`: Generates a new wallet with a mnemonic.
- `getMockWallet(name, wallets): Wallet`: Retrieves a mock wallet by name.
- `mockWallets(options, api?): Promise<Wallet[]>`: Creates mock wallets for testing.
- `setupWallet(params): Wallet`: Sets up a wallet from a mnemonic or URI.

## Usage examples

### 1. Wallet management

#### Activate a wallet using a mnemonic phrase

```typescript
import { activateWallet } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

(async () => {
  const mnemonic = 'your mnemonic phrase here';

  const { api, accounts } = await activateWallet({
    mnemonic,
    networkId: 'taurus', // Optional: specify the network ID
  });

  const account = accounts[0];
  console.log(`Connected with account address: ${account.address}`);

  // Perform actions with the account...

  // Disconnect when done
  await api.disconnect();
})();
```

#### Activate a wallet using a URI

```typescript
import { activateWallet } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

(async () => {
  const { api, accounts } = await activateWallet({
    uri: '//Alice',
    networkId: 'localhost', // Connect to a local network
  });

  const account = accounts[0];
  console.log(`Connected with account address: ${account.address}`);

  // Disconnect when done
  await api.disconnect();
})();
```

#### Create mock wallets for testing

```typescript
import { activate, mockWallets, getMockWallet } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

(async () => {
  const api = await activate({ networkId: 'taurus' });

  const wallets = await mockWallets({}, api);
  const aliceWallet = getMockWallet('Alice', wallets);
  const bobWallet = getMockWallet('Bob', wallets);

  console.log(`Alice's address: ${aliceWallet.accounts[0].address}`);
  console.log(`Bob's address: ${bobWallet.accounts[0].address}`);

  // Disconnect when done
  await api.disconnect();
})();
```

### 2. Network management

#### List all available networks

```typescript
import { networks } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

networks.forEach((network) => {
  console.log(`Network ID: ${network.id}, Name: ${network.name}`);
});
```

#### Retrieve the details of a specific network

```typescript
import { getNetworkDetails } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

const network = getNetworkDetails({ networkId: 'taurus' });
console.log(`Network Name: ${network.name}`);
console.log(`RPC URLs: ${network.rpcUrls.join(', ')}`);
```

#### Retrieve the details of a specific domain within a network

```typescript
import { getNetworkDomainDetails } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

const domain = getNetworkDomainDetails({ domainId: '1', networkId: 'taurus' });
console.log(`Domain Name: ${domain.name}`);
console.log(`RPC URLs: ${domain.rpcUrls.join(', ')}`);
```

### 3. Cryptographic functions

#### Hash a string using BLAKE2b-256

```typescript
import { blake2b_256, stringToUint8Array } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

const data = 'Hello, Autonomys!';
const dataBytes = stringToUint8Array(data);
const hash = blake2b_256(dataBytes);

console.log(`Hash: ${hash}`); // Outputs the hash of the input string
```

#### Convert a string to a `Uint8Array`

```typescript
import { stringToUint8Array } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

const text = 'Sample text';
const byteArray = stringToUint8Array(text);

console.log(byteArray); // Outputs Uint8Array representation of the string
```

#### Concatenate two `Uint8Array` instances

```typescript
import { stringToUint8Array, concatenateUint8Arrays } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

const array1 = stringToUint8Array('First part ');
const array2 = stringToUint8Array('Second part');

const concatenated = concatenateUint8Arrays(array1, array2);
console.log(`Concatenated Result: ${new TextDecoder().decode(concatenated)}`);
// Outputs: "First part Second part"
```

### 4. API activation

#### Activate the network API (connect to the Autonomys Network)

```typescript
import { activate } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

(async () => {
  const api = await activate({ networkId: 'taurus' });

  console.log('API connected');

  // Perform API calls...

  // Disconnect when done
  await api.disconnect();
})();
```

#### Activate a domain API (connect to a specific domain within the Autonomys Network)

```typescript
import { activateDomain } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

(async () => {
  const api = await activateDomain({ domainId: '1', networkId: 'taurus' });

  console.log('Domain API connected');

  // Perform domain-specific API calls...

  // Disconnect when done
  await api.disconnect();
})();
```

### 5. Data storage

#### Save data to local storage or the file system and read it back

```typescript
import { save, read } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

const key = 'myData';
const value = { message: 'Hello, Autonomys!' };

// Save data
save(key, value);

// Read data
const retrievedValue = read(key);
console.log(retrievedValue); // Outputs: { message: 'Hello, Autonomys!' }
```

### 6. Address utilities

#### Convert an address to a standardized format and decode it

```typescript
import { address, decode } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

const originalAddress = '5GmS1wtCfR4tK5SSgnZbVT4kYw5W8NmxmijcsxCQE6oLW6A8';
const standardizedAddress = address(originalAddress);
const decodedAddress = decode(originalAddress);

console.log(`Standardized Address: ${standardizedAddress}`);
console.log('Decoded Address:', decodedAddress);
```

Commit message:

Update Auto-Utils to include Auto Drive API reference, regenerate LLM docs

pages/sdk/auto-utils.mdx, after:

## Auto-Utils Package

### Introduction

The `@autonomys/auto-utils` package provides core utility functions for interacting with and building applications on the Autonomys Network.

### Features

- **Wallet Management**: Initialize and manage wallets using mnemonics or URIs.
- **Network Configuration**: Access and manage network and domain settings.
- **Data Storage**: Save and read data to and from local storage or the file system.
- **Cryptographic Operations**: Perform hashing and data manipulation using cryptographic functions.
- **API Activation**: Activate and manage connections to the Autonomys Network APIs.
- **Address Utilities**: Convert and decode addresses to and from standardized formats.

### Installation

Install the package via `npm` or `yarn`:

```bash
# Using npm
npm install @autonomys/auto-utils

# Using yarn
yarn add @autonomys/auto-utils
```

### Importing

Import the `auto-utils` functions you need into your project:

```typescript
// Import specific functions
import { activateWallet, activate, blake2b_256 } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

// Or import everything
import * as utils from '@autonomys/auto-utils';
```

### Available functions

> *Note:* All asynchronous functions return a `Promise` and should be used with `await` for proper execution flow. Wrap asynchronous calls in `try...catch` blocks to handle potential errors gracefully.

#### Account and address utilities

- `address(input): string`: Standardizes an address format.
- `createAccountIdType(api, address): Uint8Array`: Creates an `AccountId` object from an address.
- `decode(input): Uint8Array`: Decodes an address to bytes.

#### API and connection management

> *Note:* Always disconnect the API instance after operations to free up resources.

- `activate(options?): Promise<ApiPromise>`: Connects to the Autonomys Network.
- `activateDomain(params): Promise<ApiPromise>`: Connects to a specific domain.
- `createConnection(endpoint, options?): Promise<ApiPromise>`: Creates a new API connection.
- `createAutoDriveApi(api, networkId)`: Connects to the Auto Drive API of the selected Network.
- `disconnect(api): Promise<void>`: Disconnects an API instance.

#### Cryptographic functions

- `blake2b_256(data): string`: Hashes data with BLAKE2b-256.
- `concatenateUint8Arrays(...arrays): Uint8Array`: Concatenates multiple `Uint8Array`s.
- `stringToUint8Array(string): Uint8Array`: Converts a string to `Uint8Array`.

#### Data storage

> *Note:* Be cautious when saving sensitive data using `save` and `read` as data storage is permanent. Handle private keys securely. Do not expose them in code or logs.

- `read(key): Promise<any>`: Reads data from storage.
- `readFromFileSystem(key): Promise<any>`: Reads data from file system.
- `readFromLocalStorage(key): Promise<any>`: Reads data from local storage.
- `save(key, value): Promise<void>`: Saves data to storage.
- `saveOnFileSystem(key, value): Promise<void>`: Saves data to file system.
- `saveOnLocalStorage(key, value): Promise<void>`: Saves data to local storage.

#### Event management

- `eventName(type, event): string`: Combines a type and an event into a full event name.
- `eventsGroup`: Groups system events by name.
- `expectSuccessfulTxEvent`: Default success event names array.
- `Type`: Enum for event types (e.g., `system`).
- `validateEvents(events, eventsExpected?, tx, block, log?): EventsValidated`: Checks if expected events are in transaction events.

#### Network management

- `getNetworkDetails(options): NetworkDetails`: Retrieves the details of a network.
- `getNetworkDomainDetails(options): DomainDetails`: Retrieves the details of a domain.
- `getNetworkDomainRpcUrls(options): string[]`: Retrieves the RPC URLs for a domain.
- `getNetworkRpcUrls(options): string[]`: Retrieves the RPC URLs for a network.
- `networks`: Array of available networks.

#### Signing utilities

- `signMessage(signer, address, data): Promise<{ signature: string }>`: Signs a message with a signer and an address.
- `signatureVerify`: Verifies signatures (re-exported from `@polkadot/util-crypto`).
- `signingKey(publicKey): string`: Converts a public key to a hex string.

#### String utilities

- `capitalizeFirstLetter(string): string`: Capitalizes the first letter.
- `fixLengthEntryId(blockHeight, indexInBlock?): string`: Creates fixed-length IDs.
- `isAddress(address): boolean`: Validates a Substrate address.
- `isHex(value): boolean`: Validates a hexadecimal string.
- `shortString(value, initialLength?, endLength?): string`: Truncates strings.
- `stringify(value): string`: Stringifies values, handling BigInt.

#### Token and value formatting

- `formatSpacePledged(value, decimals?): string`: Formats space amount with units.
- `formatTokenAmount(amount, decimals?): bigint`: Formats token amount with decimals.
- `parseTokenAmount(amount, decimals?): number`: Parses token amount with decimals.

#### Transaction utilities

- `signAndSendTx(sender, tx, options?, eventsExpected?, log?, mapErrorCodeToEnum?): Promise<TransactionSignedAndSend>`: Signs, sends, and validates a transaction.

#### Wallet management

- `activateWallet(options): Promise<{ api, accounts }>`: Activates a wallet using a mnemonic or URI.
- `generateWallet(): GeneratedWallet`: Generates a new wallet with a mnemonic.
- `getMockWallet(name, wallets): Wallet`: Retrieves a mock wallet by name.
- `mockWallets(options, api?): Promise<Wallet[]>`: Creates mock wallets for testing.
- `setupWallet(params): Wallet`: Sets up a wallet from a mnemonic or URI.

## Usage examples

### 1. Wallet management

#### Activate a wallet using a mnemonic phrase

```typescript
import { activateWallet } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

(async () => {
  const mnemonic = 'your mnemonic phrase here';

  const { api, accounts } = await activateWallet({
    mnemonic,
    networkId: 'taurus', // Optional: specify the network ID
  });

  const account = accounts[0];
  console.log(`Connected with account address: ${account.address}`);

  // Perform actions with the account...

  // Disconnect when done
  await api.disconnect();
})();
```

#### Activate a wallet using a URI

```typescript
import { activateWallet } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

(async () => {
  const { api, accounts } = await activateWallet({
    uri: '//Alice',
    networkId: 'localhost', // Connect to a local network
  });

  const account = accounts[0];
  console.log(`Connected with account address: ${account.address}`);

  // Disconnect when done
  await api.disconnect();
})();
```

#### Create mock wallets for testing

```typescript
import { activate, mockWallets, getMockWallet } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

(async () => {
  const api = await activate({ networkId: 'taurus' });

  const wallets = await mockWallets({}, api);
  const aliceWallet = getMockWallet('Alice', wallets);
  const bobWallet = getMockWallet('Bob', wallets);

  console.log(`Alice's address: ${aliceWallet.accounts[0].address}`);
  console.log(`Bob's address: ${bobWallet.accounts[0].address}`);

  // Disconnect when done
  await api.disconnect();
})();
```

### 2. Network management

#### List all available networks

```typescript
import { networks } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

networks.forEach((network) => {
  console.log(`Network ID: ${network.id}, Name: ${network.name}`);
});
```

#### Retrieve the details of a specific network

```typescript
import { getNetworkDetails } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

const network = getNetworkDetails({ networkId: 'taurus' });
console.log(`Network Name: ${network.name}`);
console.log(`RPC URLs: ${network.rpcUrls.join(', ')}`);
```

#### Retrieve the details of a specific domain within a network

```typescript
import { getNetworkDomainDetails } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

const domain = getNetworkDomainDetails({ domainId: '1', networkId: 'taurus' });
console.log(`Domain Name: ${domain.name}`);
console.log(`RPC URLs: ${domain.rpcUrls.join(', ')}`);
```

### 3. Cryptographic functions

#### Hash a string using BLAKE2b-256

```typescript
import { blake2b_256, stringToUint8Array } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

const data = 'Hello, Autonomys!';
const dataBytes = stringToUint8Array(data);
const hash = blake2b_256(dataBytes);

console.log(`Hash: ${hash}`); // Outputs the hash of the input string
```

#### Convert a string to a `Uint8Array`

```typescript
import { stringToUint8Array } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

const text = 'Sample text';
const byteArray = stringToUint8Array(text);

console.log(byteArray); // Outputs Uint8Array representation of the string
```

#### Concatenate two `Uint8Array` instances

```typescript
import { stringToUint8Array, concatenateUint8Arrays } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

const array1 = stringToUint8Array('First part ');
const array2 = stringToUint8Array('Second part');

const concatenated = concatenateUint8Arrays(array1, array2);
console.log(`Concatenated Result: ${new TextDecoder().decode(concatenated)}`);
// Outputs: "First part Second part"
```

### 4. API activation

#### Activate the network API (connect to the Autonomys Network)

```typescript
import { activate } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

(async () => {
  const api = await activate({ networkId: 'taurus' });

  console.log('API connected');

  // Perform API calls...

  // Disconnect when done
  await api.disconnect();
})();
```

#### Activate a domain API (connect to a specific domain within the Autonomys Network)

```typescript
import { activateDomain } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

(async () => {
  const api = await activateDomain({ domainId: '1', networkId: 'taurus' });

  console.log('Domain API connected');

  // Perform domain-specific API calls...

  // Disconnect when done
  await api.disconnect();
})();
```

### 5. Data storage

#### Save data to local storage or the file system and read it back

```typescript
import { save, read } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

const key = 'myData';
const value = { message: 'Hello, Autonomys!' };

// Save data
save(key, value);

// Read data
const retrievedValue = read(key);
console.log(retrievedValue); // Outputs: { message: 'Hello, Autonomys!' }
```

### 6. Address utilities

#### Convert an address to a standardized format and decode it

```typescript
import { address, decode } from '@autonomys/auto-utils';

const originalAddress = '5GmS1wtCfR4tK5SSgnZbVT4kYw5W8NmxmijcsxCQE6oLW6A8';
const standardizedAddress = address(originalAddress);
const decodedAddress = decode(originalAddress);

console.log(`Standardized Address: ${standardizedAddress}`);
console.log('Decoded Address:', decodedAddress);
```
