pages/auto_agents_framework/introduction.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

## Autonomys Agents: A framework for building autonomous AI agents

<Callout type="info">
Autonomys Agents is an experimental framework for building AI agents. Currently, the framework supports agents that can interact with social networks and maintain permanent memory through the Autonomys Network. We are still in the early stages of development and are actively seeking feedback and contributions. We will be rapidly adding many more workflows and features.
</Callout>

![Auto-Agents Framework](/developers/Auto-Agents-1.png)

## Features

- 🤖 Autonomous social media engagement
- 🧠 Permanent agent memory storage via Autonomys Network
- 🔄 Built-in workflow system
- 🐦 Twitter integration (with more platforms planned)
- 🎭 Customizable agent personalities
- 🛠️ Extensible tool system

## Requirements

- NodeJS version 20.18.1 or newer
- Yarn version 1.22.19 or newer

## Building Your Own Auto Agent

### Getting Started

1. **Set Up Development Environment**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/autonomys/autonomys-agents
cd auto-agents
yarn install
```

2. **Configure Environment**
```bash
cp .env.sample .env
# Edit .env with required credentials
```

### Creating Agent Characters

Characters are stored in `src/agents/workflows/kol/characters/`. To create a new character:

```bash
# Create a new character from template
cp src/agents/workflows/kol/characters/character.example.ts \
   src/agents/workflows/kol/characters/my-character.ts
```

### Character Configuration

Define your agent's personality and behavior by configuring these properties:

```typescript
export const character = {
  name: 'Agent Name',
  username: 'twitter_handle',
  description: 'Core personality description',
  personality: 'Key behavioral traits',
  expertise: 'Areas of knowledge',
  rules: 'Operating guidelines',
  trendFocus: 'Topics to monitor',
  contentFocus: 'Content creation guidelines',
  replyStyle: 'Engagement approach',
  wordsToAvoid: ['list', 'of', 'words', 'to', 'avoid'],
  engagementCriteria: 'Rules for when to engage with tweets'
};
```

### Example Characters

1. **Rational Agent** (`character.ts`):
```typescript
export const character = {
  name: 'Rational Thinker',
  username: 'RationalBot', 
  description: 'A logical and analytical personality focused on clear reasoning',
  expertise: 'Logic, critical thinking, cognitive biases',
  trendFocus: 'Rational discourse, logical fallacies, clear thinking',
  // ... other configuration
};
```

2. **Tech Enthusiast** (`techie.ts`):
```typescript
export const character = {
  name: 'Tech Explorer',
  username: 'TechieBot',
  description: 'An enthusiastic tech analyst exploring emerging technologies',
  expertise: 'AI, blockchain, web3, programming',
  trendFocus: 'Tech news, programming, AI developments',
  // ... other configuration
};
```

### Running Your Agent

Launch your agent in different modes:

```bash
# Run specific character (omit .ts/.js extension)
yarn dev argumint
yarn start techie
```

Note: When specifying character files, omit both `.ts` and `.js` extensions. The system automatically uses the correct extension for development (`.ts`) and production (`.js`).

## Workflows

### Twitter

The Twitter workflow enables agents to:

- Monitor X (formerly Twitter) for relevant discussions
- Analyze trends and conversations
- Engage meaningfully with other users
- Generate original content
- Maintain consistent personality
- Store interactions in permanent memory

## Autonomys Network Integration

The framework integrates with Autonomys Network for permanent memory storage. This enables:

- Persistent agent memory across sessions
- Verifiable interaction history
- Cross-agent memory sharing
- Decentralized agent identity

### Configuration

1. Configure your environment variables in `.env`:
```env
AUTO_DRIVE_UPLOAD=true
AUTONOMYS_WALLET_KEY=your_wallet_key
AUTONOMYS_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD=your_password
```

To read more about Auto Drive click [here](/sdk/auto-drive)

2. Make sure your wallet has sufficient funds. You can get testnet funds from https://subspacefaucet.com/

## Memory Resurrection

To resurrect memories from the Autonomys Network:

### Options

- `-o, --output`: (Optional) The directory where memories will be saved. Defaults to `./memories`
- `-n, --number`: (Optional) Number of memories to fetch. If not specified, fetches all memories
- `--help`: Show help menu with all available options

Examples:

```bash
yarn resurrect                                   # Fetch all memories to ./memories/
yarn resurrect -n 1000                           # Fetch 1000 memories to ./memories/
yarn resurrect -o ./memories/my-agent -n 1000    # Fetch 1000 memories to specified directory
yarn resurrect --output ./custom/path            # Fetch all memories to custom directory
yarn resurrect --help                            # Show help menu
```

### Development Resources

- [Auto SDK Documentation](/sdk)
- [Framework Repository](https://github.com/autonomys/autonomys-agents)

Commit message:

Sync auto agents intro with Charlie's changes

pages/auto_agents_framework/introduction.mdx, after:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

## Autonomys Agents: A framework for building autonomous AI agents

<Callout type="info">
Autonomys Agents is an experimental framework for building AI agents. Currently, the framework supports agents that can interact with social networks and maintain permanent memory through the Autonomys Network. We are still in the early stages of development and are actively seeking feedback and contributions. We will be rapidly adding many more workflows and features.
</Callout>

![Auto-Agents Framework](/developers/Auto-Agents-1.png)

## Features

- 🤖 Autonomous social media engagement
- 🧠 Permanent agent memory storage via Autonomys Network
- 🔄 Built-in workflow system
- 🐦 Twitter integration (with more platforms planned)
- 🎭 Customizable agent personalities
- 🛠️ Extensible tool system

## Requirements

- NodeJS version 20.18.1 or newer
- Yarn version 1.22.19 or newer

## Building Your Own Auto Agent

### Getting started

1. **Set up a development environment**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/autonomys/autonomys-agents
cd auto-agents
yarn install
```

2. **Configure the environment**
```bash
cp .env.sample .env
# Edit .env with required credentials
```

### Creating agent characters

Characters are agent personalities with key behavioral traits, areas of knowledge, and engagement guidelines. They are stored in `src/agents/workflows/kol/characters/`.

1. **Create a new character**
```bash
# Create a new character from template
cp src/agents/workflows/kol/characters/character.example.ts \
   src/agents/workflows/kol/characters/my-character.ts
```
2. **Configure the character by defining these properties**

```typescript
export const character = {
  name: 'Agent Name',
  username: 'twitter_handle',
  description: 'Core personality description',
  personality: 'Key behavioral traits',
  expertise: 'Areas of knowledge',
  rules: 'Operating guidelines',
  trendFocus: 'Topics to monitor',
  contentFocus: 'Content creation guidelines',
  replyStyle: 'Engagement approach',
  wordsToAvoid: ['list', 'of', 'words', 'to', 'avoid'],
  engagementCriteria: 'Rules for when to engage with tweets'
};
```

#### Example characters

1. **Rational agent** (`character.ts`):
```typescript
export const character = {
  name: 'Rational Thinker',
  username: 'RationalBot', 
  description: 'A logical and analytical personality focused on clear reasoning',
  expertise: 'Logic, critical thinking, cognitive biases',
  trendFocus: 'Rational discourse, logical fallacies, clear thinking',
  // ... other configuration
};
```

2. **Tech enthusiast** (`techie.ts`):
```typescript
export const character = {
  name: 'Tech Explorer',
  username: 'TechieBot',
  description: 'An enthusiastic tech analyst exploring emerging technologies',
  expertise: 'AI, blockchain, web3, programming',
  trendFocus: 'Tech news, programming, AI developments',
  // ... other configuration
};
```

### Running Your Agent

**Launch your agent in different modes**:

- **Development mode with specific character**
```bash
# Run specific character (omit .ts/.js extension)
yarn dev argumint
```

- **Production mode with specific character**
```bash
# Run specific character (omit .ts/.js extension)
yarn start techie
```

> **Note**: When specifying character files, omit both `.ts` and `.js` extensions. The system automatically uses the correct extension for development (`.ts`) and production (`.js`)

## Workflows

### Twitter

The Twitter workflow enables agents to:

- Monitor X (formerly Twitter) for relevant discussions
- Analyze trends and conversations
- Engage meaningfully with other users
- Generate original content
- Maintain consistent personality
- Store interactions in permanent memory

## Autonomys Network Integration

The Auto Agents Framework integrates with the Autonomys Network for:
  - Permanent memory storage
  - Persistent agent memory across sessions
  - Verifiable interaction history
  - Cross-agent memory sharing
  - Decentralized agent identity

### Configuration

1. Configure your environment variables in `.env`:
```env
AUTO_DRIVE_UPLOAD=true
AUTONOMYS_WALLET_KEY=your_wallet_key
AUTONOMYS_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD=your_password
```

To read more about Auto Drive click [here](/sdk/auto-drive)

2. Make sure your wallet has sufficient funds. You can get testnet funds from https://subspacefaucet.com/

## Memory Resurrection

To resurrect memories from the Autonomys Network:

### Options

- `-o, --output`: (Optional) The directory where memories will be saved. Defaults to `./memories`
- `-n, --number`: (Optional) Number of memories to fetch. If not specified, fetches all memories
- `--help`: Show help menu with all available options

Examples:

```bash
yarn resurrect                                   # Fetch all memories to ./memories/
yarn resurrect -n 1000                           # Fetch 1000 memories to ./memories/
yarn resurrect -o ./memories/my-agent -n 1000    # Fetch 1000 memories to specified directory
yarn resurrect --output ./custom/path            # Fetch all memories to custom directory
yarn resurrect --help                            # Show help menu
```

### Development Resources

- [Auto SDK Documentation](/sdk)
- [Framework Repository](https://github.com/autonomys/autonomys-agents)
