pages/evm/bridge.mdx, before:

---
title: Bridging on the Taurus Testnet
---

# Bridging Now Possible on the Taurus Testnet

We're excited to announce the deployment of a new HyperLane-based bridge, developed in collaboration with our infrastructure partner Protofire. This bridge is now live on the Auto EVM domain of our Taurus testnet and accessible here: https://bridge.taurus.autonomys.xyz/

![bridge](/developers/bridge-1.png)

Bridges are critical infrastructure components for robust blockchain networks, enabling users to seamlessly access liquidity and applications across different blockchain ecosystems. With the launch of this HyperLane bridge, Autonomys users can now effortlessly transfer assets between the Taurus Auto EVM and Ethereum's Sepolia testnet, unlocking a broader range of possibilities and interactions.

For those actively participating in our ongoing Game of Domains challenge -Crossing the Narrow Sea - you may already have a balance on Taurus Auto EVM. This means you're ready to jump right in and begin bridging your tokens over to Sepolia Ethereum without any additional steps.

We encourage everyone in the community to explore this bridge and experiment with its capabilities. Your feedback is crucial as we continue to refine and improve our infrastructure.

Get involved and experience the power of seamless interoperability!

Commit message:

Update Taurus references to Chronos

pages/evm/bridge.mdx, after:

---
title: Bridging on the Chronos Testnet
---

# Bridging Now Possible on the Chronos Testnet

We're excited to announce the deployment of a new HyperLane-based bridge, developed in collaboration with our infrastructure partner Protofire. This bridge is now live on the Auto EVM domain of our Chronos testnet and accessible here: https://bridge.taurus.autonomys.xyz/

![bridge](/developers/bridge-1.png)

Bridges are critical infrastructure components for robust blockchain networks, enabling users to seamlessly access liquidity and applications across different blockchain ecosystems. With the launch of this HyperLane bridge, Autonomys users can now effortlessly transfer assets between the Chronos Auto EVM and Ethereum's Sepolia testnet, unlocking a broader range of possibilities and interactions.

For those actively participating in our ongoing Game of Domains challenge -Crossing the Narrow Sea - you may already have a balance on Chronos Auto EVM. This means you're ready to jump right in and begin bridging your tokens over to Sepolia Ethereum without any additional steps.

We encourage everyone in the community to explore this bridge and experiment with its capabilities. Your feedback is crucial as we continue to refine and improve our infrastructure.

Get involved and experience the power of seamless interoperability!
