pages/introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: Introduction
---

## Autonomys Developer Hub

### Introduction
The [**Autonomys Network**](https://autonomys.xyz) is the *only* blockchain that resolves the blockchain trilemma without compromise. Autonomys offers a platform for new and experienced developers to build secure, scalable AI-powered decentralized applications (**super dApps**) and unstoppable, verifiable on-chain agents (**Auto Agents**) with ease, leveraging familiar tools and innovative protocols.

This guide offers an overview of the development options available on the Autonomys Network.

### Is building on Autonomys difficult?

Absolutely not! One of the project's primary objectives is to minimize the barriers to entry for all network participants, from farmers to developers. Building on Autonomys is thus very straightforward, with active support from our team and community available if you ever run into trouble.

Join the Autonomys Discord server, tell us about your idea, and the team will help you see it through to deployment—no project is too ambitious! We pride ourselves on enabling the seemingly un-enableable.

### Development options

Developers can currently choose to build using the:
- **Auto SDK**: a comprehensive toolkit that simplifies development on the Autonomys Network, or the
- **Auto EVM**: Autonomys's EVM-compatible domain, allowing you to utilize all its familiar functionalities.

You will soon be able to build your own local custom virtual machines.

## [Auto SDK](/sdk)

### Key features:
- **Modular Packages**: Partitions functionality intuitively into packages including `auto-utils`, `auto-consensus`, and `auto-id`, allowing you to import only what you need.
- **Simplified Interaction**: Abstracts the complexity of blockchain operations with high-level functions.
- **Flexibility**: Suitable for building AI-powered decentralized applications (super dApps) and on-chain agents (Auto Agents) with ease.

### Getting started with the Auto SDK
To start using the Auto SDK, refer to our [setup instructions](/sdk) to clone the repository, install dependencies, and run tests. The Auto SDK is designed to be developer-friendly, even for first-time developers, ensuring that anyone can get up and running quickly.

## [Auto EVM](/evm/introduction)

> **Note:** Available on the **Taurus** testnet (and Autonomys Mainnet at [**Phase-2 launch**](https://forum.autonomys.xyz/t/phased-launch-roadmap/4414) in Q1 2025)

### Key features:
- **Solidity Smart Contracts**: Write and deploy smart contracts using Solidity, just as you would on Ethereum.
- **Tool Compatibility**: Compatible with any tool available for Ethereum development, including Remix, Truffle, and Hardhat.
- **Familiar Environment**: Leverage existing knowledge and resources from the Ethereum ecosystem to build your application.

### Why use the Auto EVM?
- **Seamless Transition**: Developers familiar with Ethereum can transition to Autonomys without a steep learning curve.
- **Scalability and Security**: Benefit from Autonomys' scalable and secure infrastructure while using tried-and-true development practices.
- **Interoperability**: Create applications that can interact seamlessly with other EVM-compatible networks.

### Getting started with the Auto EVM
To start using the Auto EVM, refer to our [guides and manuals](/evm/introduction).

## RPC endpoints

#### Consensus
- `wss://rpc.mainnet.subspace.foundation/ws`
- `wss://rpc.taurus.subspace.foundation/ws`

### Auto EVM
- `wss://auto-evm-0.taurus.subspace.network/ws`
- `wss://auto-evm-1.taurus.subspace.network/ws`

### Auto ID

> **Note:** Available on the **Gemini-3h** testnet (availability on Taurus and Mainnet is planned at [**Phase-2 launch**](https://forum.autonomys.xyz/t/phased-launch-roadmap/4414) in Q1 2025)

- `wss://autoid-0.gemini-3h.subspace.network/ws`

## Questions or feedback? Post on our [forum](https://forum.autonomys.xyz/) or in the *#developer-chat* channel on our [Discord](https://discord.gg/EAw6B48r).

To access the developer role-gated *#developer-chat* channel:
1. Join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/vhv5cEZN).
2. Click on Autonomys Network in the top-left corner and choose **Linked Roles**.
   ![Discord-1](/developers/Discord-1.png)

3. Link your GitHub account to attain the developer role and gain access to *#developer-chat*. 
   ![Discord-2](/developers/Discord-2.png)

Commit message:

Add notes on: EVM gas estimation fee, EVM versioning, transaction security

pages/introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: Introduction
---

## Autonomys Developer Hub

### Introduction
The [**Autonomys Network**](https://autonomys.xyz) is the *only* blockchain that resolves the blockchain trilemma without compromise. Autonomys offers a platform for new and experienced developers to build secure, scalable AI-powered decentralized applications (**super dApps**) and unstoppable, verifiable on-chain agents (**Auto Agents**) with ease, leveraging familiar tools and innovative protocols.

This guide offers an overview of the development options available on the Autonomys Network.

### Is building on Autonomys difficult?

Absolutely not! One of the project's primary objectives is to minimize the barriers to entry for all network participants, from farmers to developers. Building on Autonomys is thus very straightforward, with active support from our team and community available if you ever run into trouble.

Join the Autonomys Discord server, tell us about your idea, and the team will help you see it through to deployment—no project is too ambitious! We pride ourselves on enabling the seemingly un-enableable.

### Development options

Developers can currently choose to build using the:
- **Auto SDK**: a comprehensive toolkit that simplifies development on the Autonomys Network, or the
- **Auto EVM**: Autonomys's EVM-compatible domain, allowing you to utilize all its familiar functionalities.

You will soon be able to build your own local custom virtual machines.

### Transaction Security
The Autonomys Network uses a nonce system to prevent transaction replay attacks:

- Each account has an integer nonce value that increases by one with every on-chain transaction
- Signed transactions must include the correct nonce value to be accepted
- Transactions with incorrect nonce values are rejected, preventing replay attacks
- For security, new accounts' default nonce value is set to the current block number (rather than 0)
- This ensures if an account is reaped and later re-created, previous transactions remain invalid

## [Auto SDK](/sdk)

### Key features:
- **Modular Packages**: Partitions functionality intuitively into packages including `auto-utils`, `auto-consensus`, and `auto-id`, allowing you to import only what you need.
- **Simplified Interaction**: Abstracts the complexity of blockchain operations with high-level functions.
- **Flexibility**: Suitable for building AI-powered decentralized applications (super dApps) and on-chain agents (Auto Agents) with ease.

### Getting started with the Auto SDK
To start using the Auto SDK, refer to our [setup instructions](/sdk) to clone the repository, install dependencies, and run tests. The Auto SDK is designed to be developer-friendly, even for first-time developers, ensuring that anyone can get up and running quickly.

## [Auto EVM](/evm/introduction)

> **Note:** Available on the **Taurus** testnet (and Autonomys Mainnet at [**Phase-2 launch**](https://forum.autonomys.xyz/t/phased-launch-roadmap/4414) in Q1 2025)

### Key features:
- **Solidity Smart Contracts**: Write and deploy smart contracts using Solidity, just as you would on Ethereum.
- **Tool Compatibility**: Compatible with any tool available for Ethereum development, including Remix, Truffle, and Hardhat.
- **Familiar Environment**: Leverage existing knowledge and resources from the Ethereum ecosystem to build your application.

### Why use the Auto EVM?
- **Seamless Transition**: Developers familiar with Ethereum can transition to Autonomys without a steep learning curve.
- **Scalability and Security**: Benefit from Autonomys' scalable and secure infrastructure while using tried-and-true development practices.
- **Interoperability**: Create applications that can interact seamlessly with other EVM-compatible networks.

### Getting started with the Auto EVM
To start using the Auto EVM, refer to our [guides and manuals](/evm/introduction).

## RPC endpoints

#### Consensus
- `wss://rpc.mainnet.subspace.foundation/ws`
- `wss://rpc.taurus.subspace.foundation/ws`

### Auto EVM
- `wss://auto-evm-0.taurus.subspace.network/ws`
- `wss://auto-evm-1.taurus.subspace.network/ws`

### Auto ID

> **Note:** Available on the **Gemini-3h** testnet (availability on Taurus and Mainnet is planned at [**Phase-2 launch**](https://forum.autonomys.xyz/t/phased-launch-roadmap/4414) in Q1 2025)

- `wss://autoid-0.gemini-3h.subspace.network/ws`

## Questions or feedback? Post on our [forum](https://forum.autonomys.xyz/) or in the *#developer-chat* channel on our [Discord](https://discord.gg/EAw6B48r).

To access the developer role-gated *#developer-chat* channel:
1. Join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/vhv5cEZN).
2. Click on Autonomys Network in the top-left corner and choose **Linked Roles**.
   ![Discord-1](/developers/Discord-1.png)

3. Link your GitHub account to attain the developer role and gain access to *#developer-chat*. 
   ![Discord-2](/developers/Discord-2.png)
